I love a good, well-thought-out story. In all the media that I consume, the main thing that pulls me in is usually the
overall story. A lot of the time, I find myself excusing the shortcomings of some media because it has an interesting
plot or setting. One example of this is Helluva Boss, set in Hell and influenced by a lot of non-canonical Christian
sources. The setting, especially the politics of the demons who rule that world, is very interesting to me. I think the
show is held back by its inability to take itself seriously and its overreliance on sex jokes and over-the-top violence.
Still, the plot and setting of Helluva Boss is enough for me to be interested.

Another example of this is Rick and Morty, which I used to watch a lot of when I was a teenager. The problems I have
with Rick and Morty are similar to those I have with Helluva Boss, mostly that the show can barely take itself
seriously. Still, the plotline with "Evil Morty" kept me watching through to the end of season 5, and I only started to
lose interest in the show when the story declined after that.

One of my favorite media franchises is Pokémon. I love the characters and the gameplay, and I have a lot of nostalgia
from playing the games and watching the anime as a kid. Unfortunately, the story is not one of the things that draws me
to engage with Pokémon media. It's pretty common to hear people complain about the games' simple storylines, but that's
not what I am going to do today. Instead, I'm going to talk about the missed opportunities to form a cohesive story
between the Pokémon games.

### Kanto and Hoenn Connection

The third generation of Pokémon began with the release of Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire, which were set in the new Hoenn
region. They were the first Pokémon games on the Game Boy Advance, and could not connect to any games from the previous
two generations. Because of this, Game Freak decided to release Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen the following year, which
were remakes of the original Pokémon games set in the Kanto region.

According to later sources, these two sets of games take place at the same time in-universe. Unfortunately, there is
never any story connection between the two. Considering that the previous games, Pokémon Gold and Silver, were direct
sequels to Pokémon Red and Blue, I think that not having a single reference between the plots of the third generation
games was a bit of a let-down.

As for what the connection between these two games could have been, I think it would make sense to find and battle the
Hoenn protagonist during the post-game of Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen. This would probably take place in the Sevii
Islands, although maybe the player could have travelled to the Battle Frontier from Pokémon Emerald and met them there.
This would keep the main events of the games independent of each other, but it would reinforce that they are in the same
world. Also, having the battle take place in FireRed and LeafGreen implies that the protagonist of those games, Red,
is the one who wins. Red is canonically one of the strongest trainers in-universe, so it makes sense that he would win
this battle.

### The Gimmicks

Over the last 10 years, every new generation of Pokémon games has included a new battle gimmick. In the sixth
generation, they introduced mega evolution, where certain pokémon could temporarily change into a new, more powerful
form. In the seventh generation, they introduced Z-moves, where a pokémon could use a single, powered-up move once per
battle. Mega evolution was not present in the story of the seventh generation games, however, it did become available in
the post-game.

However, in the eighth generation, both of these gimmicks were completely missing. Instead, they were replaced by
dynamax, where a pokémon grows extremely large for 3 turns, and gigantamax, where a pokémon grows large and takes on a
new form for 3 turns. Unlike in the seventh generation, the previous gimmicks could not be unlocked during the
post-game. It seems like Game Freak wanted to pretend that these gimmicks didn't exist. Due to the mechanical similarity
between mega evolution and gigantamax, some fans theorized that they had a connection, like that gigantamax is what
happens when a pokémon mega evolves and dynamaxes at the same time. However, unfortunately, there is never any in-game
mention of a connection here, nor is there any canonical reasons given that the older gimmicks are unavailable in-game.

In the ninth generation, dynamax and gigantamax were predictably ditched, and were replaced by terastalization, where a
pokémon changes its typing during battle. Again, the previous gimmicks can never be unlocked during the game. What is
more weird is that terastalization is pretty similar to an older gimmick from the Pokémon Trading Card Game, that being
delta species. Delta species pokémon had a different type than their regular forms, and the introduction of
terastalization would have been an excellent opportunity to make a reference to Holon, the TCG-exclusive region that
delta species pokémon were from. Even something as simple as a reference in a pokédex entry would have achieved this.

The handling of Pokémon's battle gimmicks, especially in generations eight and nine, had the opportunity to further
connect and expand the world of Pokémon, but these opportunities were frustratingly looked over. This kind of
interconnectedness wouldn't hurt the gameplay at all, and newer players who never experienced the older games won't lose
anything from its inclusion. It would also make the world of these games feel more real, breaking the feeling that
everything is happening in a vacuum.

### The Kalos War

The first Pokémon game I played was Pokémon X, set in the Kalos region, which is based on France. The story of the game
centers around a cataclysmic war that took place 3000 years ago between Kalos and a neighboring region. At the end of
the war, the king of Kalos built the "Ultimate Weapon" and used it to destroy his enemy's army. The power released by
the ultimate weapon also caused pokémon to gain the ability to mega evolve. This raises one very important question: Who
was the Kalos War fought against? Unfortunately, we don't know the answer to this question, but there are two good
options.

Firstly, there is Galar. Galar is the setting of Pokémon Sword and Shield, and it is based on the United Kingdom. The
story of Sword and Shield also centers around an event from 3000 years ago, the Darkest Day. Similarly to the ultimate
weapon, the power from the Darkest Day caused pokémon to gain the ability to dynamax and gigantamax, and it has been
theorized by Pokémon fans that these mechanics share their source of power. Given the time frame, it's possible that the
firing of the ultimate weapon caused the darkest day.

The other option is Paldea, which is based on Spain and Portugal and is the setting of Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. The
known history of Paldea only goes back 2000 years, which potentially speaks to the devastation caused by the firing of
the ultimate weapon. Also, the center of the region features a gigantic crater that takes up 1/10th of the map, inside
which is the source for some power that we still don't fully understand. It's possible that the ultimate weapon created
the Great Crater of Paldea, wiping out all civilization in Paldea for 1000 years, and maybe the Darkest Day just came
from the fallout of the weapon. It's possible that Galar was a bystander or a minor participant in the war.

Unfortunately, neither Pokémon Sword, Shield, Scarlet, or Violet contain any reference at all to the ultimate weapon or
the Kalos War. If the Pokémon world even roughly follows real-life geography, then Kalos, Galar, and Paldea should be
very close to each other, so it is crazy that neither of those regions have any mention of such an important historical
event. Personally, I believe that Paldea was the target of the ultimate weapon, and that Galar was a bystander, but this
is just based on my intuition. I wish there was some evidence in-game that could help tie these events together.

### Pokémon Legends: Z-A

Ultimately, Pokémon is a media franchise aimed mainly for kids. The intended audience of Pokémon doesn't care about the
games being interconnected or having a fleshed out storyline, so it's never something I expect to get when I play the
games. The recent game Pokémon Legends: Arceus was a very refreshing change in course, focusing more on an interesting
story and establishing the history of the Pokémon world.

The next game in the Pokémon Legends series is set to release in the next year, and it's set in the Kalos region that I
started in with Pokémon X, so I am cautiously optimistic about what this game could bring to the story of Pokémon.
My biggest wish lore-wise is for more information on mega evolution, its potential connection with dynamax and
gigantamax, and potentially some information on the Kalos War too. I know that these games will add more to the Pokémon
story, and I can't wait to see what that entails.
