It's that time of year again. The first leaves are starting to turn orange and red, and some have even begun to litter
the ground. Yes, autumn is only a mere two days away.

Autumn has always been my favorite time of the year. Clearly, I like this season, seeing as I named myself after it.
There are so many things I find special about these coming months. There's the cool and calm weather, the seasonal food,
and the holidays, which combine to create an autumnal feeling. These are fairly universal experiences, however, and I
know my love of the autumnal season stems from things more personal. I will discuss my personal connections to the
season of autumn.

### The Oktoberfest

One personally meaningful autumn event is the Oktoberfest. I myself have some distant German heritage, with my
Hoffensetz ancestors originating in southern Germany before moving to Denmark. During my childhood, a close friend of
mine (with much more recent German heritage) hosted a yearly oktoberfest. The get-together was attended by up to a dozen
families and was hosted in my friend's backyard, and although I usually struggle in social settings, the oktoberfest was
different.

I think what truly solidifies my personal legend is the fact that it ended. While it used to be a yearly tradition, for
some reason, my friend's family decided to stop hosting them in 2018, far before even COVID-19 had made its effect. The
oktoberfest is no longer a contemporary event to me, instead becoming a facet of my childhood nostalgia, and it's
inherently tied to the autumn.

### The Renaissance Festival

A local autumnal festivity in my area is the Renaissance Festival. It runs from September through the end of October,
and I have always loved the experience of walking around a pseudo-medieval town. It's a strange thing really, the idea
of a renaissance festival. I'm pleasantly surprised that so many people enjoy experiencing this historical-feeling
setting like I do.

As a child, I always loved watching the crazy acts like the Wheel of Death or Johnny Fox the sword swallower, and the
excitement of the jousting competitions in the giant colosseum-like arena. Things like this created a feeling of
excitement and wonder. I also really enjoyed all the weird shops, selling everything from crystals and glass jewelry to
real swords and armor. To young me, the idea that you can just buy a sword like that was amazing (and it was made even
better when I actually bought one many years later). There is even a shop at the renaissance festival that sells
medieval-themed board games!

### Halloween

Well, Halloween isn't exactly something that I alone feel connected to. Most Americans along with people from many
countries celebrate this holiday, so what makes it so special for me? The answer is sort of that I don't know. To me,
there was always something intrinsically special about Halloween and my experience celebrating it, but I haven't been
able to put my finger on what that was until now.

Among the online transgender community, Halloween is a popular favorite holiday. The reasons for this are kind of
obvious, being that it's a time when you can be something different from your day-to-day self. Despite the fact that I
only realized I'm transgender within the past few years, I have always enjoyed the idea of dressing up and becoming
something else on Halloween. Maybe there's some subconscious connection to be found here.

I also associate Halloween with my friends. All the way through 8th grade, I attended a small private school about half
an hour from my house. As such, none of my friends lived remotely close to me. However, on Halloween, all of us would
meet up at one friend's house and trick-or-treat together. As I grew older with my friends, this turned into us walking
around each other's neighborhoods and hanging out. In my youth, Halloween was one of the few times that my entire friend
group got together outside of school, and that was always significant to me.

### The Passing Seasons

While all the things I've discussed so far have been fairly tangible, I have also constructed a metaphorical meaning to
autumn which I find significant.

The title of this blog post is a reference to the Pixelmon mod, a Pok√©mon-themed mod for the game Minecraft. I spent a
lot of my childhood playing this mod, and its beautiful soundtrack holds a special place in my heart. Having come out in
2013, Pixelmon is one of the older Minecraft mods, and it still receives infrequent updates. Recently, a new song was
added to its soundtrack, 'The Passing Seasons' by Chris Geddes. The calm and warm music symbolizes, to me, the aging of
the Pixelmon mod and its quiet, slow descent into the shadow of newer mods. Even though Pixelmon's relevance is fading,
it is not done giving new content and experiences.

I have similar feelings towards this time of year. The year has gone on for many months, from the allergen-infested
spring to the hot and humid summer. Now, as the leaves change color and the weather cools, the year is beginning to come
to a close. Despite this, the best parts of the year are still ahead of us. As the year winds to its end and as 2024
approaches, let's not lose sight of the things that make the present special.
